1. A or D? Did Dijkstra call for total abolishment of goto?
   (D)isagree -- Dijkstra called for abolishment in high-level languages but
   still allowed goto for complicated control structures and "alarm exits."

2. T or F? All uses of goto are poor programming practice.
   False -- some uses (error handling in C, nested loop exits) are acceptable
   and can make code cleaner than the alternatives.

3. Which C/C++/Java control flow syntax is most like a goto-statement?
   E: break-statement

4. T or F? Computer Science was originally founded in Engineering and/or Math.
   True

5. Why did formal verification turn out to be unworkable?
   (1) Practically: the proofs were too long, tedious, and unconvincing.
   (2) Theoretically: Godel's Incompleteness Theorem proves that some
       mathematical statements simply cannot be proved.

6. T or F? After formal verification was abandoned, the search turned to
   techniques for correct program derivation.
   True

7. Name one technique for correct program derivation.
   Top-down design; functional decomposition; structured programming;
   object-oriented programming (any one counts).

8. How is goto semantics implemented in machine code?
   Via a JMP or BR (branch) instruction that directly overwrites the
   Program Counter (PC) register.

9. A or D? The programmer really controls code execution at runtime.
   (D)isagree -- once written and running, the machine controls execution.
   The programmer is responsible for the static code she writes, and that
   code drives the dynamic execution, but she no longer directly controls
   it at runtime.

10. Which control construct appears to have been invented last?
    B: case[i]-of

11. Why is "iterate, v. -- See iterate." so funny?
    It is a circular (recursive) definition -- looking up "iterate" tells
    you to look up "iterate," sending you back forever. The joke IS the
    definition.

12. Why did Dijkstra prefer "error" over "bug"?
    "Bug" is too cute and innocuous -- it softens the gravity of a mistake.
    "Error" is precise and carries appropriate seriousness.

13. Name at least one way a program can be correct.
    (1) Syntactically correct -- compiles and links successfully.
    (2) Functionally correct -- satisfies the stated requirements (verification).
    (3) Solves the right problem -- the requirements themselves are correct
        (validation).

14. T or F? The dynamic aspects of a program should be evident in the
    structure of the source code itself.
    True -- the mapping is constructed by using structured control flow
    (if/else, while, for) so the code's visual structure mirrors its
    runtime behavior.

15. Who/What constructs the STATIC representation of a program?
    Programmer

16. Who/What constructs the DYNAMIC representation of a program?
    ALL apply -- programmer (writes the code), compiler/linker (translates),
    computer hardware (executes), and operating system (manages the process).

17. T or F? A sequence point and Dijkstra's "textual index" are essentially
    the same thing.
    True

18. T or F? Sequence point alone is not sufficient to describe flow-of-control
    during iteration or nested subroutine calls. Explain if True.
    True -- a sequence point only tracks WHERE in the code execution is.
    It does not track WHICH iteration of a loop is active (dynamic index)
    or how deep nested procedure calls are (call stack depth). Both extra
    coordinates are required for a complete description.

19. Mark the in-between states for n = n+1.

    Load/Store architecture:
       LOAD  n       <-- sequence point (before: n has old value)
       ADD   #1      <-- IN-BETWEEN: result computed, not yet stored
       STORE n       <-- sequence point (after: n has new value)

    Stack-Based architecture:
       PUSH  n       <-- sequence point (before: n has old value)
       PUSH  #1      <-- IN-BETWEEN
       ADD           <-- IN-BETWEEN: sum on stack, n not yet updated
       POP   n       <-- sequence point (after: n has new value)

    The in-between states are every instruction BETWEEN the first read
    of n and the final write back to n -- during those instructions the
    sum exists only in a register or on the stack, and n still holds its
    old value.

20. What is "the execution state and history of the program"?
    The current values of all program variables, the contents of the
    run-time call stack, and the values of all CPU registers -- together
    with the flow-of-control history (the sequence of statements executed)
    that produced those values.

21. T or F? It should be possible to determine the value of any variable
    at any point during a deterministic program's execution.
    True

22. T or F? Loop constructs are superfluous because repetition can always
    be expressed using recursion.
    True

23. T or F? break and continue are examples of Dijkstra's "abortion clauses."
    True

24. Give an example of an unstructured (unrestricted) goto-statement.
    Jumping INTO the middle of a loop body from outside it, or jumping
    BACKWARD into a previously executing procedure from a deeper call --
    neither is achievable with break/continue/return and both corrupt the
    call stack and loop iteration coordinates.

25. A or D? Dijkstra considered goto harmful but not lethal and not useless.
    (A)gree

26. Name one C standard library function used for "alarm exits."
    exit(), abort(), or raise()

27. Rewrite the while-loop using if + 2 gotos + 2 labels.
    n = 1;
    L10: if ( !(n <= x) ) goto L20;
             printf("*"); n++;
             goto L10;
    L20: printf("\n");

28. IF/ELSEIF/ELSE -- implicit goto arrows:
    Every false condition jumps forward past its body to the next test.
    Every true body ends with an unconditional jump to END (past all
    remaining ELSEIF/ELSE branches).

29. WHILE with BREAK -- implicit goto arrows:
    The WHILE condition jumps past END on false. The BREAK jumps to
    next-statement unconditionally. END always jumps back up to the
    WHILE condition.

30. DO/UNTIL -- implicit goto arrows:
    The UNTIL test at the bottom: if false, jumps back up to DO
    (loop again); if true, jumps forward to next-statement (exit).
    Note the body below UNTIL inside the same DO...END is only
    reachable if UNTIL is false, so it executes before looping back.
